China's National Health Commission announced on Monday morning that the death toll from the coronavirus outbreak in mailand China reached 1,770 as of the end of Sunday, up by 105 from the previous day. 
At least 100 of the new deaths were from the province of Hubei, the epicentre of the epidemic.
Across the country, there were 2,048 new confirmed infections, about 1,933 from Hubei alone, pushing the new total to 70,548. 
On Sunday, Hubei announced tough new measures to try to curb the outbreak, ordering its cities to block roads to all private vehicles.
Meanwhile on Sunday, the United States evacuated its citizens from the quarantined Diamond Princess cruise ship, which has been docked at Japan's Yokohama port for more than a week in a bid to contain the spread of the coronavirus.
Forty US nationals found to have been infected by the COVID-19 coronavirus will remain in Japan for treatment, a US health official said.
In Taiwan, the government reported its first death from the disease while a newly-published speech revealed that Chinese President Xi Jinping was aware of the potential severity of the outbreak long before the public was informed.
Al Jazeera's John Hendren, reporting from Washington, DC, said the US citizens being evacuated from the Diamond Princess cruise ship, docked at Yokohama in Japan, had a "no frills" journey ahead of them.
He explained that after having spent 10 days in quarantine on the ship, the US nationals who tested negative for the coronavirus will board a cargo plane to return to the US.
"They've been told that it will be cold, they should bundle up, they should bring their own food and for those with bags over 70 pounds, they're told those bags will not make the trip," Hendren said.
Once home, the evacuees will need to spend two more weeks in quarantine at military bases in California and Texas.
A senior US health official has said that more than 40 US nationals on the quarantined cruise ship in Japan have been infected with the deadly coronavirus.
"Forty of them have gotten infected," Anthony Fauci, a senior official at the National Institutes for Health said on a CBS news programme.
Israel's Ministry of Health has confirmed a third Israeli citizen onboard the quarantined Diamond Princess cruise ship docked at Yokohama in Japan as tested positive for the coronavirus.
The patients have been transferred to a medical centre in Japan and Israel will send an "expert physician to be in direct contact with relevant agencies in Japan and follow the patients' case throughout the medical procedure," the ministry said in an online statement.
A total of 355 people on the ship have tested positive for the virus.
More than 100 German nationals have been released from quarantine at a military base near Frankfurt airport, two weeks after flying in from Wuhan.
"All the people concerned have been allowed to leave the quarantine zone and rejoin their families," Thomas Gebhart, secretary of state for health told a press briefing.
None of the individuals in quarantine was infected with the virus.
About 100 people have called on Pakistan's government to "bring back our children" from locked-down Hubei province at a demonstration in Karachi.
Pakistan's government has so far ruled out evacuating the more than 1,000 Pakistani students in the province. Health Minister Zafar Mirza and others are due to hold a meeting for parents in Islamabad on Wednesday.
But many students and their families have expressed growing frustration as the death toll in China mounts, pointing to other countries, including neighbouring India and Bangladesh, that have evacuated their citizens.
"For God's sake, we request from the government representatives please bring back our children, please listen to a mother's grievance," once protester said through tears.
UAE confirms new case
The United Arab Emirates has confirmed its ninth case of coronavirus.
The country's health ministry said in a Twitter post the patient was a 37-year-old Chinese national. It added the man was in a stable condition and was being monitored. 
Find out which other countries have confirmed cases here.
US passengers' evacuation from quarantined ship begins: Report
US passengers have began evacuating a cruise ship quarantined at Japan's Yokohama, boarding a dozen buses at the port.
An AFP news agency reporter saw buses in a convoy starting to move away from the boat, though they did not immediately depart the port.
A passenger from the US, Sarah Arana, confirmed to AFP she had boarded a bus and was expecting to take one of two charter flights leaving for the United States.
Malaysia insists virus diagnosis from cruise passenger is correct
Malaysia insisted it had correctly diagnosed coronavirus in an elderly US passenger from the Westerdam cruise ship despite all passengers having been given a clean bill of health when they disembarked in Cambodia.
The vessel was at sea for two weeks and barred from Japan, Guam, the Philippines, Taiwan and Thailand, until Cambodia - a staunch ally of Beijing - allowed the ship to dock Thursday in Sihanoukville.
Cambodia urged Kuala Lumpur to "double-check" the diagnosis, but Malaysian Deputy Prime Minister Wan Azizah Wan Ismail said the 83-year-old woman had already been tested twice. "Our protocol is actually world-class ... it's a positive," she told a press conference.
Taiwan reports first death from virus
The first death due to COVID-19 has been reported in Taiwan, its health minister said.
The deceased was a taxi driver in his 60s and was hospitalised on February 3 due to shortness of breath, which led to a diagnosis of pneumonia. He died late on Saturday, Health and Welfare Minister Chen Shih-chung told a televised news conference.
According to Chen, one of the man's family members also contracted the virus. While the man had not travelled abroad, he had previously transported people from China, Hong Kong and Macau.
Hong Kong protesters rally against virus quarantine centres
Hundreds of demonstrators rallied for a second day in Hong Kong to protest against plans to turn some buildings into coronavirus quarantine centres, reviving anti-government protests in the Chinese-ruled city.
About 100 people braved rain in the New Territories district of Fo Tan, where authorities plan to use a newly built residential development that was subsidised by the government as a quarantine centre. Riot police stood by.
Beijing theme park to open on schedule
The Universal Studios Beijing theme park is expected to open to the public in May 2021 as scheduled despite the current coronavirus outbreak, a Beijing municipal official told a news briefing.
Construction of the theme park, the fifth such Universal Studios park in the world, is expected to be completed by the end of 2020, the official said.
Hubei province bans vehicle traffic to curb spread of coronavirus
The government of Hubei province, the centre of China's coronavirus outbreak, said a ban will be imposed on vehicle traffic across the province to curb the spread of the virus.
In a published document, it said police cars, ambulances, vehicles carrying essential goods, or other vehicles related to public service would be exempted.
It added that the province will carry out regular health checks on all residents in the province. It also stated that companies cannot resume work without first receiving permission from the government.
Nepal evacuates 175 citizens from Wuhan after coronavirus outbreak
Nepal has evacuated 175 of its nationals from the Chinese city of Wuhan, an official said, after protests by parents of students studying in the city.
A plane operated by state-owned Nepal Airlines carrying 134 men and 41 women, mostly students, landed at Kathmandu's Tribhuvan International Airport before dawn, Health Ministry spokesman Mahendra Shrestha said. All evacuees will be held in quarantine for two weeks in the nearby town of Bhaktapur.
"They will be under the close observation of doctors in quarantine and will be allowed to join their families if found healthy after two weeks," Shrestha told Reuters.
Another 70 people test positive for coronavirus on ship in Japan
Katsunobu Kato, Japan's health minister, said 70 more people on board the quarantined Diamond Princess cruise ship have tested positive for the coronavirus, bringing the total to 355 cases.
Some 3,700 passengers and crew were on board the ship, where the most coronavirus infections outside China have occurred. Those testing positive are transferred to Japanese hospitals.

